README.md, before:

An automated ML pipeline to forecast electricity demand for the PJM balancing authority.

<img 
    src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/efd0d3b8-3d4c-4d50-a93b-0009093ca0e9"
    alt="Predicted vs. true electricity demand timeseries"
    width="400">
# Goal

The goal of this project is to demonstrate:

- ML Ops
    - ML workflow orchestration.
    - Versioning:
        - Dataset versioning.
        - Model versioning and experiment tracking.
    - ETL Pipeline.
    - Reliability: Pipeline performance visibility and alerting.
    - Isolation between development and deployed environment infrastructure.
    - Model performance comparisons to baseline.
    - Hyperparameter tuning.
- ML
    - Timeseries feature engineering.
    - Timeseries forecasting with XGBoost.
    - Timeseries cross validation.

# Data

[EIA Open Data](https://www.eia.gov/developer)'s hourly electricity
demand data.

# Stack

- [X] Docker Compose Dev Environment
- [X] Prefect (ML Workflow Orchestration)
- [ ] MLFlow
- [X] DVC
- [X] XGBoost

# References

- Géron, Aurélien. Hands-on machine learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras, and TensorFlow. "O'Reilly Media, Inc.", 2022.
- [Rob Mulla's Kaggle tutorial](https://www.kaggle.com/code/robikscube/pt2-time-series-forecasting-with-xgboost/notebook) on timeseries forecasting with XGBoost

Commit message:

Remove logging abstraction + WIP etl/train flow.
Removing logging abstraction:
- The logging abstraction was already not acheiving its goal of allowing
  consistant logging in any environment. The main hope I had was that it
  would show up in the prefect UI logs, which it did not.
- I encountered the additional problem that it won't even show up in the
  local worker logs when nesting flows (which is what I'm begginging to
  do).
- Better to simplify for now and use print statements until I think
  through a more robust solution.

WIP etl/train flow: I'm beggining to create a parent flow that does ETL
then training in sequence.

README.md, after:

An automated ML pipeline to forecast hourly electricity demand for the PJM balancing authority.

<img
    src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/efd0d3b8-3d4c-4d50-a93b-0009093ca0e9"
    alt="Predicted vs. true electricity demand timeseries"
    width="400">
# Goal

The goal of this project is to demonstrate:

- ML Ops
    - ML workflow orchestration.
    - Versioning:
        - Dataset versioning.
        - Model versioning and experiment tracking.
    - ETL Pipeline.
    - Reliability: Pipeline performance visibility and alerting.
    - Isolation between development and deployed environment infrastructure.
    - Model performance comparisons to baseline.
    - Hyperparameter tuning.
- ML
    - Timeseries feature engineering.
    - Timeseries forecasting with XGBoost.
    - Timeseries cross validation.

# Data

[EIA Open Data](https://www.eia.gov/developer)'s hourly electricity
demand data.

# Stack

- Dev Env: Docker Compose
- ML Workflow Orchestration: Prefect
- Experiment tracking: MLFlow
- Dataset version tracking and 'Data Warehouse': DVC (+ git repo)
- Model: XGBoost

# References

- Géron, Aurélien. Hands-on machine learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras, and TensorFlow. "O'Reilly Media, Inc.", 2022.
- [Rob Mulla's Kaggle tutorial](https://www.kaggle.com/code/robikscube/pt2-time-series-forecasting-with-xgboost/notebook) on timeseries forecasting with XGBoost
